Alright, so so far,
we've dealt exclusively with state that is
internal to the component, which is to say
that the values in the component are only
accessible within that dot Svelte file.
But, when you're building things
out of multiple components,
you will need to pass data between them.
So, to do that, we use what
are called properties or props.
In Svelte,
we do that using the export keyword.
Let's go over to
the nested.svelte component.
You see that we have a let answer value
here, which is currently undefined.
We can say that we wanna expose this value
to the outside world and allow other
components to pass data into this
component by using the export keyword.
Now, if you've used import and
export before in JavaScript,
then just like with the dollar sign,
you may be a little bit,
hang on,
I don't know what's going on here.
This is not how JavaScript normally
works and that is totally fine.
It's not how JavaScript works, but
it's syntax that we can use to
express the intent of this component.
The idea is that everything inside
the script tag is valid JavaScript syntax,
which makes it easy for you to use things
like linters and code formatters and
all the rest of it.
So, if you have some hesitations,
it's fine just roll with it and
it'll soon become very natural, and
we can specify default values for
props that we declare,
again inside nested.svelte.
Let's give the answer
a fallback value of a mystery.
And now inside app.svelte,
if we add a second nested component,
You'll see that in the first case,
we're passing this answer prop down and
it's being faithfully rendered.
In the second case,
we're leaving that undefined and
the component is using
its own fall back value.
There's a bug in this exercise, we've
forgotten to include the version prop.
So, this reads the spelt package is
blazing fast download version undefined.
Well, that's obviously not good,
now we could fix this by fixing the use
of this package info component here.
We could add version
equals package.version.
And you'll see that it now says
version three, that's great.
That fixed it, but since the properties of
this package object you can see up here.
Since they correspond to
the values that we're sending into
the package info component,
we can just send them all in one
go is as a package I guess,
using this spread syntax, ...pkg.
It has the exact same effect.
So, this is often the case when you're
working with props that you will have
an object that perfectly matches the props
that you need to send to another
component, and this is just a convenient
shorthand that lets you do this.
A little bit of an advanced feature, if
you need to reference all of the props as
an object inside the component then you
can use this special dollar dollar props
value which is made available
to your components.
>> How do we handle something like export
default or just export const and spell?
>> So, you cannot export default because
the default export is the component.
You can do an export const, but
it doesn't have the meaning that
you're probably expecting if you're
translating directly from an export let.
What an export const means is that you can
access the value of what's declared inside
the component from outside the component
if you have a reference to that component.
That's something that we're gonna cover
later on in the tutorial when we learn
about bindings, you'll be able to
get a reference to a component and
start interacting with
it programmatically.
But in general, you're not gonna be using
export const inside your components, and
you cannot use export default because
the component is the default export.
>> When you create a component file, it's
just automatically export defaulted so
you can import it from
any other Svelte file?
>> Exactly, yeah.
>> And, when you export a variable
in the script tags,
when you import the file,
you're also importing that variable?
>> You're importing the component and
then the export is just a market that says
that you can pass that value into
the component that you just imported.
Yeah, it's something that once
you've eased it a couple of times,
it'll start to feel a lot more natural and
make sense.
>> Does this say, not support TypeScript?
>> It does support TypeScript,
learn.svelte.dev does not currently
support TypeScript, that is
something that we would like to add.
Unfortunately, TypeScript is kind of a big
and complicated package, and in order
to use it in here, we would need to load
like I think about a megabyte of code.
And we would also need to teach
the code editor how to interpret that,
it's a whole thing.
And we plan to do that one day, but for
now we're not gonna be using TypeScript.
Later on, when we get out of this website
and start building something on our own
machines, that's the point at which we'll
start using TypeScript, we'll get there.